README.md, before:

# AgentOS

A **mobile-first** self-hosted web UI for managing multiple AI coding assistant sessions. Built for developers who need to manage AI coding sessions on the go from their phones.

> If you find AgentOS useful, please consider giving it a star! It helps the project grow and reach more developers.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2e66f7-037e-4739-99ec-608d1840df0a

![AgentOS Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)



## Why AgentOS?

Most AI coding tools assume you're at a desktop. AgentOS is designed for developers who need **full functionality from their mobile device** - not just a dumbed-down "responsive" version.

- **Primary device**: Phone (iOS/Android)
- **Primary context**: On the go, away from your desktop
- **Primary need**: Everything desktop users have, adapted for touch

## Supported Agents

- **Claude Code** (Anthropic) - Full support with resume/fork
- **Codex** (OpenAI) - Basic support with approval modes
- **OpenCode** - Basic support for multi-provider CLI
- **Gemini CLI** (Google) - Basic support for Gemini models
- **Aider** - AI pair programming with multi-LLM support
- **Cursor CLI** - Cursor's AI agent in the terminal

## Features

### Mobile-First Terminal
- **Virtual Keyboard** - 3 modes: Quick keys (common shortcuts), ABC, Numbers
- **Touch-Optimized Scrolling** - Smooth scrolling in both normal and alternate buffers
- **Shift+Enter Support** - Multi-line input in Claude Code CLI
- **Image Picker** - Browse server filesystem to select images for Claude Code

### Session Management
- **Multi-Agent Support** - Switch between Claude, Codex, OpenCode, Gemini, Aider, and Cursor per session
- **Auto-Import tmux Sessions** - Existing Claude/Codex/Aider sessions detected on startup
- **Session Preview on Hover** - Quick preview of session terminal state
- **Status Detection** - Real-time running/waiting/idle status with spike filtering
- **Browser Notifications** - Get notified when sessions need input

### Multi-Pane Layout
- **Multi-Pane View** - Run up to 4 sessions side-by-side with resizable panes
- **Session Groups** - Organize sessions in collapsible folder hierarchy
- **Tabbed Terminals** - Multiple tabs per pane for quick switching

### Project Organization
- **Projects** - Group sessions by project with shared settings
- **Working Directory** - Each project has a default working directory
- **Directory Picker** - Browse filesystem to select directories visually
- **Inline Creation** - Create new projects directly from the new session dialog
- **Dev Server Integration** - Each project can have configured dev servers

### Dev Server Management
- **Node.js Servers** - Start/stop/restart npm/yarn/pnpm dev servers
- **Docker Compose** - Support for Docker-based development environments
- **Port Management** - Automatic port assignment and tracking
- **Server Logs** - View real-time logs from running servers
- **Stop Confirmation** - Safety confirmation before stopping servers

### Git Integration
- **Git Status Panel** - View staged/unstaged/untracked files
- **Inline Diff Viewer** - Tap files to see unified diffs
- **Swipe to Stage** - Mobile-friendly staging gestures
- **Commit & Push** - Full git workflow from the UI
- **PR Integration** - Create PRs and track status (requires `gh` CLI)

### Git Worktrees
- **Isolated Branches** - Each worktree gets its own feature branch
- **Auto Environment Setup** - Copies `.env*` files, installs dependencies
- **Unique Dev Ports** - Each worktree gets assigned a port (3100, 3110...)

### Session Orchestration
- **Conductor/Worker Model** - Spawn worker sessions with isolated worktrees via MCP
- **Worker Status Tracking** - Monitor worker progress from conductor view

### Developer Experience
- **ASCII Banner** - Custom AgentOS branding on session start
- **Custom tmux Status Bar** - AgentOS-themed status bar with session info
- **File Explorer** - Browse project files with syntax highlighting
- **Session Forking** - Fork conversations to explore different approaches (Claude)
- **Session Resume** - Auto-detects session IDs for seamless resume (Claude)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- tmux
- At least one of:
  - [Claude Code CLI](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) installed and authenticated
  - [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) installed and authenticated
  - [OpenCode CLI](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode) installed and configured
  - [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed and authenticated
  - [Aider](https://aider.chat/) installed and configured
  - [Cursor CLI](https://cursor.com/cli) installed (requires Cursor subscription)
- [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) (`gh`) - Optional, for PR integration
- macOS or Linux

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/saadnvd1/agent-os
cd agent-os

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:3011
```

## Mobile Access with Tailscale

AgentOS runs on your dev machine, but you want to access it from your phone. [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com) creates a secure mesh network between your devices - no port forwarding or firewall config needed.

### Step 1: Install Tailscale on Your Dev Machine

**macOS:**
1. Download from [tailscale.com/download](https://tailscale.com/download)
2. Sign in with Google/GitHub/etc
3. Note the IP assigned (visible in menu bar) - it looks like `100.x.x.x`

**Linux:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
sudo tailscale up
tailscale ip  # Note your IP
```

### Step 2: Install Tailscale on Your Phone

1. Download Tailscale from App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android)
2. Sign in with the **same account**
3. Your dev machine should appear in the device list

### Step 3: Access AgentOS

On your phone's browser, go to:
```
http://100.x.x.x:3011
```
Replace `100.x.x.x` with your dev machine's Tailscale IP.

That's it! The connection is encrypted end-to-end and works from anywhere - home, coffee shop, or mobile data.

**Tip:** Bookmark the URL or add it to your home screen for quick access.

## How It Works

AgentOS manages AI coding CLI sessions through tmux. Each session runs in its own tmux session (`{agent}-{uuid}`), allowing:

- **Persistence** - Sessions survive browser refreshes and server restarts
- **Resume** - Pick up conversations where you left off (Claude: `--resume`)
- **Fork** - Branch conversations using `--fork-session` (Claude only)
- **Multi-Agent** - Choose between Claude, Codex, OpenCode, Gemini, Aider, or Cursor when creating sessions

The web UI provides an xterm.js terminal connected to tmux, with a sidebar for session management. Provider-specific flags are handled automatically via the abstraction in `lib/providers.ts`.

## Git Worktrees

When creating a session in a git repository, you can enable "Create isolated worktree" to:

1. **Create a feature branch** - Automatically generates `feature/{name}` branch
2. **Isolated directory** - Worktree created in `~/.agent-os/worktrees/`
3. **Auto-setup environment** - Copies `.env*` files and runs package manager install
4. **Unique dev port** - Each worktree gets assigned a port (3100, 3110, etc.)
5. **PR workflow** - Create PRs directly from the session menu

### Configuration (Optional)

Create `.agent-os/worktrees.json` in your project to customize setup:

```json
{
  "setup": [
    "cp $ROOT_WORKTREE_PATH/.env.local .env.local",
    "pnpm install",
    "npm run db:migrate"
  ],
  "devServer": {
    "command": "npm run dev",
    "portEnvVar": "PORT"
  }
}
```

Without a config file, AgentOS auto-detects your package manager and copies `.env*` files automatically.

## Architecture

```
Browser (React 19)
├── PaneLayout (resizable panels)
│   └── Pane (tabs + terminal/files/git views)
├── SessionList (projects + sessions sidebar)
│   ├── ProjectsSection (project organization)
│   └── DevServerCard (server status/controls)
├── Terminal (xterm.js + virtual keyboard)
├── FileExplorer (project browser)
├── GitPanel (status + diff viewer)
├── DirectoryPicker (filesystem browser)
└── ImagePicker (server filesystem browser)
         │
         │ WebSocket (/ws/terminal)
         ▼
server.ts (Next.js + node-pty)
         │
         ├── tmux sessions → AI CLI (claude/codex/opencode/aider)
         └── dev servers → child_process (node/docker)
         │
         ▼
SQLite (sessions, projects, dev_servers)
```

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm start` - Run production server
- `npm run typecheck` - TypeScript type checking

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 + React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Database**: SQLite (better-sqlite3)
- **Terminal**: xterm.js + node-pty
- **Panels**: react-resizable-panels
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4 + shadcn/ui

## Configuration

Environment variables (optional):

- `PORT` - Server port (default: 3011)
- `DB_PATH` - SQLite database path (default: ./agent-os.db)

## License

Business Source License 1.1 (BUSL-1.1)

- **Allowed**: View, modify, fork, non-production use
- **Not allowed**: Any production use without a commercial license
- **Converts to MIT** on January 1, 2029

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for full terms. For commercial licensing, contact: saad@lumifyhub.io

Commit message:

fix: reconnect WebSocket when iOS Safari resumes from background
iOS Safari suspends JavaScript when the page is backgrounded, causing
WebSocket connections to drop. Added visibilitychange event listener
that immediately attempts reconnection when the page becomes visible.

Also added code review FAQ to README.

README.md, after:

# AgentOS

A **mobile-first** self-hosted web UI for managing multiple AI coding assistant sessions. Built for developers who need to manage AI coding sessions on the go from their phones.

> If you find AgentOS useful, please consider giving it a star! It helps the project grow and reach more developers.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2e66f7-037e-4739-99ec-608d1840df0a

![AgentOS Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)



## Why AgentOS?

Most AI coding tools assume you're at a desktop. AgentOS is designed for developers who need **full functionality from their mobile device** - not just a dumbed-down "responsive" version.

- **Primary device**: Phone (iOS/Android)
- **Primary context**: On the go, away from your desktop
- **Primary need**: Everything desktop users have, adapted for touch

**"But how do you review code without an IDE?"**

AgentOS includes a File Explorer with syntax highlighting and a Git Panel with inline diffs. Browse files, review changes, stage commits - all touch-optimized for mobile.

## Supported Agents

- **Claude Code** (Anthropic) - Full support with resume/fork
- **Codex** (OpenAI) - Basic support with approval modes
- **OpenCode** - Basic support for multi-provider CLI
- **Gemini CLI** (Google) - Basic support for Gemini models
- **Aider** - AI pair programming with multi-LLM support
- **Cursor CLI** - Cursor's AI agent in the terminal

## Features

### Mobile-First Terminal
- **Virtual Keyboard** - 3 modes: Quick keys (common shortcuts), ABC, Numbers
- **Touch-Optimized Scrolling** - Smooth scrolling in both normal and alternate buffers
- **Shift+Enter Support** - Multi-line input in Claude Code CLI
- **Image Picker** - Browse server filesystem to select images for Claude Code

### Session Management
- **Multi-Agent Support** - Switch between Claude, Codex, OpenCode, Gemini, Aider, and Cursor per session
- **Auto-Import tmux Sessions** - Existing Claude/Codex/Aider sessions detected on startup
- **Session Preview on Hover** - Quick preview of session terminal state
- **Status Detection** - Real-time running/waiting/idle status with spike filtering
- **Browser Notifications** - Get notified when sessions need input

### Multi-Pane Layout
- **Multi-Pane View** - Run up to 4 sessions side-by-side with resizable panes
- **Session Groups** - Organize sessions in collapsible folder hierarchy
- **Tabbed Terminals** - Multiple tabs per pane for quick switching

### Project Organization
- **Projects** - Group sessions by project with shared settings
- **Working Directory** - Each project has a default working directory
- **Directory Picker** - Browse filesystem to select directories visually
- **Inline Creation** - Create new projects directly from the new session dialog
- **Dev Server Integration** - Each project can have configured dev servers

### Dev Server Management
- **Node.js Servers** - Start/stop/restart npm/yarn/pnpm dev servers
- **Docker Compose** - Support for Docker-based development environments
- **Port Management** - Automatic port assignment and tracking
- **Server Logs** - View real-time logs from running servers
- **Stop Confirmation** - Safety confirmation before stopping servers

### Git Integration
- **Git Status Panel** - View staged/unstaged/untracked files
- **Inline Diff Viewer** - Tap files to see unified diffs
- **Swipe to Stage** - Mobile-friendly staging gestures
- **Commit & Push** - Full git workflow from the UI
- **PR Integration** - Create PRs and track status (requires `gh` CLI)

### Git Worktrees
- **Isolated Branches** - Each worktree gets its own feature branch
- **Auto Environment Setup** - Copies `.env*` files, installs dependencies
- **Unique Dev Ports** - Each worktree gets assigned a port (3100, 3110...)

### Session Orchestration
- **Conductor/Worker Model** - Spawn worker sessions with isolated worktrees via MCP
- **Worker Status Tracking** - Monitor worker progress from conductor view

### Developer Experience
- **ASCII Banner** - Custom AgentOS branding on session start
- **Custom tmux Status Bar** - AgentOS-themed status bar with session info
- **File Explorer** - Browse project files with syntax highlighting
- **Session Forking** - Fork conversations to explore different approaches (Claude)
- **Session Resume** - Auto-detects session IDs for seamless resume (Claude)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- tmux
- At least one of:
  - [Claude Code CLI](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) installed and authenticated
  - [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) installed and authenticated
  - [OpenCode CLI](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode) installed and configured
  - [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed and authenticated
  - [Aider](https://aider.chat/) installed and configured
  - [Cursor CLI](https://cursor.com/cli) installed (requires Cursor subscription)
- [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) (`gh`) - Optional, for PR integration
- macOS or Linux

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/saadnvd1/agent-os
cd agent-os

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:3011
```

## Mobile Access with Tailscale

AgentOS runs on your dev machine, but you want to access it from your phone. [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com) creates a secure mesh network between your devices - no port forwarding or firewall config needed.

### Step 1: Install Tailscale on Your Dev Machine

**macOS:**
1. Download from [tailscale.com/download](https://tailscale.com/download)
2. Sign in with Google/GitHub/etc
3. Note the IP assigned (visible in menu bar) - it looks like `100.x.x.x`

**Linux:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
sudo tailscale up
tailscale ip  # Note your IP
```

### Step 2: Install Tailscale on Your Phone

1. Download Tailscale from App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android)
2. Sign in with the **same account**
3. Your dev machine should appear in the device list

### Step 3: Access AgentOS

On your phone's browser, go to:
```
http://100.x.x.x:3011
```
Replace `100.x.x.x` with your dev machine's Tailscale IP.

That's it! The connection is encrypted end-to-end and works from anywhere - home, coffee shop, or mobile data.

**Tip:** Bookmark the URL or add it to your home screen for quick access.

## How It Works

AgentOS manages AI coding CLI sessions through tmux. Each session runs in its own tmux session (`{agent}-{uuid}`), allowing:

- **Persistence** - Sessions survive browser refreshes and server restarts
- **Resume** - Pick up conversations where you left off (Claude: `--resume`)
- **Fork** - Branch conversations using `--fork-session` (Claude only)
- **Multi-Agent** - Choose between Claude, Codex, OpenCode, Gemini, Aider, or Cursor when creating sessions

The web UI provides an xterm.js terminal connected to tmux, with a sidebar for session management. Provider-specific flags are handled automatically via the abstraction in `lib/providers.ts`.

## Git Worktrees

When creating a session in a git repository, you can enable "Create isolated worktree" to:

1. **Create a feature branch** - Automatically generates `feature/{name}` branch
2. **Isolated directory** - Worktree created in `~/.agent-os/worktrees/`
3. **Auto-setup environment** - Copies `.env*` files and runs package manager install
4. **Unique dev port** - Each worktree gets assigned a port (3100, 3110, etc.)
5. **PR workflow** - Create PRs directly from the session menu

### Configuration (Optional)

Create `.agent-os/worktrees.json` in your project to customize setup:

```json
{
  "setup": [
    "cp $ROOT_WORKTREE_PATH/.env.local .env.local",
    "pnpm install",
    "npm run db:migrate"
  ],
  "devServer": {
    "command": "npm run dev",
    "portEnvVar": "PORT"
  }
}
```

Without a config file, AgentOS auto-detects your package manager and copies `.env*` files automatically.

## Architecture

```
Browser (React 19)
├── PaneLayout (resizable panels)
│   └── Pane (tabs + terminal/files/git views)
├── SessionList (projects + sessions sidebar)
│   ├── ProjectsSection (project organization)
│   └── DevServerCard (server status/controls)
├── Terminal (xterm.js + virtual keyboard)
├── FileExplorer (project browser)
├── GitPanel (status + diff viewer)
├── DirectoryPicker (filesystem browser)
└── ImagePicker (server filesystem browser)
         │
         │ WebSocket (/ws/terminal)
         ▼
server.ts (Next.js + node-pty)
         │
         ├── tmux sessions → AI CLI (claude/codex/opencode/aider)
         └── dev servers → child_process (node/docker)
         │
         ▼
SQLite (sessions, projects, dev_servers)
```

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm start` - Run production server
- `npm run typecheck` - TypeScript type checking

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 + React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Database**: SQLite (better-sqlite3)
- **Terminal**: xterm.js + node-pty
- **Panels**: react-resizable-panels
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4 + shadcn/ui

## Configuration

Environment variables (optional):

- `PORT` - Server port (default: 3011)
- `DB_PATH` - SQLite database path (default: ./agent-os.db)

## License

Business Source License 1.1 (BUSL-1.1)

- **Allowed**: View, modify, fork, non-production use
- **Not allowed**: Any production use without a commercial license
- **Converts to MIT** on January 1, 2029

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for full terms. For commercial licensing, contact: saad@lumifyhub.io
